Add Challenge 2: Verify the memory safery of core intrinsics using raw pointers (#14)
model-checking/verify-rust-std: doc/src/intrinsics-memory.md

# Challenge 2: Verify the memory safery of core intrinsics using raw pointers

- **Status:** Open

> - **Tracking Issue:** *Link to issue*

Reviewer: Can you please create one and add it here. We can edit the content of the issue later. Thanks!

Author: done

> - **Status:** *One of the following: [Open | Resolved | Expired]* Open

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Status:** Open
```

> - **Start date:** *YY/MM/DD*

Reviewer: can you put tomorrow's date?
```suggestion
- **Start date:** *24/06/12*
```

> - **End date:** *YY/MM/DD*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **End date:** *24/12/10*
```
Just some random date... we can always change it later

-------------------

## Goal

> Annotate Rust core::intrinsics functions that manipulate raw pointers with their safety contract and verify their usage in the standard library are in fact safe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Annotate Rust core::intrinsics functions that manipulate raw pointers with their safety contract. Verify their usage in the standard library is in fact safe.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Looks like you decided not to include an extended Description or Motivation section?

Author: Yes, keeping it simple for now.

> ### Success Criteria*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Success Criteria
```

1. All the following intrinsic functions must be annotated with safety contracts.
2. Any fallback intrinsic implementation must be verified.

> 3. For intrinsics modeled in the tool of choice, explain how its implementation matches the intrinsics definition. This can either be done in the PR description or as an entry to the contest book as part of the “Tools” chapter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. For intrinsics modeled in the tool of choice, explain how their implementation matches the intrinsics definition. This can either be done in the PR description or as an entry to the contest book as part of the “Tools” chapter.
```

> 4. For each function, contestants must state clearly the list of assumptions for each proof, how the proofs can be audit, and the list of (implicit and explicit) properties that are guarantee.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. For each function, contestants must state clearly the list of assumptions for each proof, how the proofs can be audited, and the list of (implicit and explicit) properties that are guaranteed.
```

5. The verification of each intrinsic should ensure all the documented safety conditions are met, and that meeting them is enough to guarantee safe usage.

> ### Functions for verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intrinsic functions to be annotated with safety contracts
```

> 5. The verification of each intrinsics should ensure all the documented safety conditions are met, and that meeting them is enough to guarantee safe usages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. The verification of each intrinsic should ensure all the documented safety conditions are met, and that meeting them is enough to guarantee safe usage.
```

> #### Functions for verification

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Functions for verification
```

|Function	|Location	|
|---	|---	|
|typed_swap | core::intrisics |

> vtable_size| core::intrisics |
> vtable_align| core::intrisics |
> copy_nonoverlapping| core::intrisics |
> copy| core::intrisics |
> write_bytes| core::intrisics |
> size_of_val| core::intrisics |
> arith_offset| core::intrisics |
> volatile_copy_nonoverlapping_memory| core::intrisics |
> volatile_copy_memory| core::intrisics |
> volatile_set_memory| core::intrisics |
> volatile_load| core::intrisics |
> volatile_store| core::intrisics |
> unaligned_volatile_load| core::intrisics |
> unaligned_volatile_store| core::intrisics |
> compare_bytes| core::intrisics |
> min_align_of_val| core::intrisics |
> ptr_offset_from| core::intrisics |
> ptr_offset_from_unsigned| core::intrisics |
> read_via_copy| core::intrisics |
> write_via_move| core::intrisics |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|vtable_size| core::intrisics |
|vtable_align| core::intrisics |
|copy_nonoverlapping| core::intrisics |
|copy| core::intrisics |
|write_bytes| core::intrisics |
|size_of_val| core::intrisics |
|arith_offset| core::intrisics |
|volatile_copy_nonoverlapping_memory| core::intrisics |
|volatile_copy_memory| core::intrisics |
|volatile_set_memory| core::intrisics |
|volatile_load| core::intrisics |
|volatile_store| core::intrisics |
|unaligned_volatile_load| core::intrisics |
|unaligned_volatile_store| core::intrisics |
|compare_bytes| core::intrisics |
|min_align_of_val| core::intrisics |
|ptr_offset_from| core::intrisics |
|ptr_offset_from_unsigned| core::intrisics |
|read_via_copy| core::intrisics |
|write_via_move| core::intrisics |
```

> |	|	|

Reviewer 2: No need for a blank row

> **At least 10 of the following usages of intrinsics were proven safe:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the following usages of intrinsics were proven safe:
```

|Function	|Location	|
|---	|---	|
|copy_from_slice	| core::slice |
|parse_u64_into	| std::fmt |
|swap | core::mem |
|align_of_val | core::mem |
|zeroed | core::mem::maybe_uninit |

> |	|	|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> parse_u64_into	| std::fmt |
> swap | core::mem |
> align_of_val | core::mem |
> zeroed | core::mem::maybe_uninit |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|parse_u64_into	| std::fmt |
|swap | core::mem |
|align_of_val | core::mem |
|zeroed | core::mem::maybe_uninit |
```

> |	|	|

Reviewer 2: No need for a blank row

> **At least 5 unsafe functions that expose those intrinsics are also annotated with safety contracts, and those contracts are verified:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Annotate and verify all the functions that below that expose intrinsics with safety contracts
```

|Function	|Location	|
|---	|---	|
|copy_from_slice	| std::ptr |
|parse_u64_into	| std::ptr |
|swap | std::ptr |
|align_of_val | std::ptr |
|zeroed | std::ptr |

> |	|	|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> parse_u64_into	| std::ptr |
> swap | std::ptr |
> align_of_val | std::ptr |
> zeroed | std::ptr |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|parse_u64_into	| std::ptr |
|swap | std::ptr |
|align_of_val | std::ptr |
|zeroed | std::ptr |
```

> |	|	|

Reviewer 2: No need for a blank row

### List of UBs

All proofs must automatically ensure the absence of the following undefined behaviors [[ref]](https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/blob/142b2ed77d33f37a9973772bd95e6144ed9dce43/src/behavior-considered-undefined.md):

* Invoking undefined behavior via compiler intrinsics.
* Accessing (loading from or storing to) a place that is dangling or based on a misaligned pointer.

> * Uninitialized memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reading from uninitialized memory except for padding or unions.
```
